# Competition

Identifies existing products (and possibly provide URLs) that solve the same (or similar) problem as yours. 
How is your product different? – If your product is better for specific users and/or specific scenarios, 

* Who are the users and/or what are the scenarios? 
* Why do you think the competitors didn’t focus on these users and/or scenarios? And, what would it take from them to do so? 

Fanlinc is a platform made to connect fans of all types. There are currently many existing platforms that solve a similar problem to FanLinc. Major competitors are Reddit (https://www.reddit.com), Facebook (https://www.facebook.com), Twitter (https://twitter.com/home), Discord (https://discordapp.com/)  and Meetup (https://www.meetup.com) . Facebook, Discord, Twitter, and Reddit provide a platform for fans to connect online. However, these platforms are not created for fans but rather a general purpose social media platform. Discord is mainly for chatting with likeminded people in specific groups, the platform doesn’t have posts like Facebook, Twitter, or Reddit. While twitter and reddit are great for making posts users don’t really use the messaging feature. Meetup is a website for planning events and meetups but doesn’t really allow for posts or messaging. Meetup.com is great for finding events in your city but there are not enough people on the platform, and it only works for very popular groups such as tech and fitness. Currently, fans have to use multiple platforms to engage with other fans in person, and online. This can be tedious and doesn’t provide the best user experience. With Fanlinc users can chat, post, find events, and other fans in their location without switching the app.

The biggest competitor is Facebook because they do have chatting, posting, and events. However, Facebook often has many groups for certain fandoms but they are flooded with phony fans and often become inactive. There is also no way to tell the level of fandom of a specific member in a Facebook group. This is where Fanlinc will differentiate itself. Fanlinc will organize users by multiple levels and types of fans. With this feature, it is easier for a hardcore fan to meet up with another hardcore fan, or a  cosplayer to meet another cosplayer.

Finally, Fanlinc will allow users to find other fans in their location using a map. This makes it so easy to find fans in your area who may become friends with you. In a dense city like Toronto there are so many people around us but we will never know who has similar interests to us. This app will help break that barrier and make communities more connected.

Other platforms that I mentioned focused on their own thing to differentiate. Discord focuses on being a great messaging platform, while Facebook focuses on being a social media platform for all users. Twitter and Reddit are great for making and searching posts and panels that all kinds of people can discuss on. Focusing on fans would make them deviate from what makes them special. Facebook made Facebook groups easy to use by letting anyone join easily. Fanlinc will add a couple more steps to get the type and level of fandom to provide a more organized user experience. A casual fan who just wants to join a group may prefer Facebook, but an expert fan who wants to discuss theories with other experts will prefer Fanlinc. Meetup focuses on getting people to meet in person but isn’t made for connecting online. While they can add features to connect people online their mission statement suggests that they want to make people meet in person rather than online. They may make a simple chat feature but they won’t have organized groups like Fanlinc.
